---
layout: post
title: "El Clasico - November 2015"
date: 2015-11-22 06:40 -0500
categories: football 
---
Every minute of the 96 that the ball was on the field, I asked the LED screen, "What is 
Real doing?", somehow expecting a reply. There was no answer. Hours have passed by, and 
I can tell you with all the certainty that there is still no answer.

Real Madrid has lost an El Clasico before. Many El Clasicos. Then why am I unable 
to digest this defeat? This mockery, this joke that was played on us. I'm not convinced 
that this is the Real Madrid I know. I refuse to believe what happened.

But it did.

### Disjoint Layers

Real consisted of 3 disjoint layers. Defence, midfield, attack - 3 teams that played 
against Barcelona. Each trying its own thing, failing so hard, it would be harder for 
Barcelona to score if no Real Madrid player was on the pitch.

### Lack of Drive

Real Madrid just did not want to beat Barcelona. That drive was dead right from the start 
of the match. There was no sense of union. This can only be attributed to the players' 
lack of belief in the manager's plan.

It was either that, or Barca's perfectly collective and accurate pressuring of Real that 
made any links between them disappear, leaving each part of Real stranded on its own island, 
screaming for help in this storm with no help arriving in any form. 

### Substitutions

When Benitez was announced Manager of Real Madrid, I did my reseach on him and I found out a 
few keys things about him. This man is known for extensive squad rotation and key substitions. 
And I've seen great examples of that all season long. Then why was it done differently this 
match? 

Isco was brought on for James. A player that should have started this match, was subbed on 
for the only player that was making any real difference attacking-wise and was out best chance 
at scoring a goal.

Casemiro was never brought on. I'm sure Benitez noticed that neither Kroos nor Modric had 
any impact at slowing Barca's attack down, nor were they able to connect the attack and the 
midfield.

### Bale

I firmly believe Real would have performed much better if Bale was able to play this match. 
What? He played? Are you sure?

You thought that was a poor joke? No, it wasn't. You know what's a poor, pathetic and 
desperate joke? Bale's performance this year.

Although, I know for a fact that his failure to play up to the standard that he's expected to 
has nothing to do with his performance. It's the team, the players, the Hispanophones that 
surround him. But that's a topic for another day.

Has he grown a phobia of the ball? Maybe. It would explain why he falls to the ground in many 
matches claiming to have pulled/torn/ruptured a muscle/ligament. This, without being invlovled 
in a clash, often without even touching the ball! It's fantastic how he has blundered at Real 
over the past season and this one. 

### Ronaldo

...

### Marcelo, Ramos, Varane

These players are the backbone of Real and I have utmost respect for them. Marcelo and Varane 
were the best players from our side this match, and Varane's performance this match is a 
clear indication of his potential. He is the future of Real Madrid. Ramos on the other hand made 
a few mistakes that practically cost Real the game, but I'm not going to butcher him because 
I have a soft corner for him. 

I'm in no mood to conclude this. I feel defeated. That should sum it up for any Madridista and 
I'm no different. 